Vault: PKI External ca docs (#1901)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/vault/v2.x (rc)/content/api-docs/secret/pki-external-ca.mdx

---
layout: api

> page_title: PKI External CA - Secrets Engines - HTTP API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page_title: PKI External CA API
```
Page title typically shows up in browser tabs so we try to keep them relatively short when possible

- [Overview](#overview)
- [ACME Account Management](#acme-account-management)
  - [Create ACME Account](#create-acme-account)
  - [Import ACME Account](#import-acme-account)
  - [Read ACME Account](#read-acme-account)
  - [Update ACME Account](#update-acme-account)
  - [Delete ACME Account](#delete-acme-account)
  - [List ACME Accounts](#list-acme-accounts)
  - [Rotate ACME Account Key](#rotate-acme-account-key)
- [Role Management](#role-management)
  - [Create/Update Role](#create-update-role)
  - [Read Role](#read-role)
  - [Delete Role](#delete-role)
  - [List Roles](#list-roles)
- [Certificate Order Workflow](#certificate-order-workflow)
  - [Create New Order](#create-new-order)
  - [Check Order Status](#check-order-status)
  - [Get Order Challenges](#get-order-challenges)
  - [Mark Challenge as Fulfilled](#mark-challenge-as-fulfilled)
  - [Fetch Certificate](#fetch-certificate)
  - [Revoke Certificate](#revoke-certificate)
  - [List Active Orders](#list-active-orders)
  - [Get Cached Certificate](#get-cached-certificate)
- [Lookup Operations](#lookup-operations)
  - [Lookup Certificate by Serial](#lookup-certificate-by-serial)
  - [Lookup Order by ID](#lookup-order-by-id)

>   - [List All Orders](#list-all-orders)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
The rendered page provides a list of h2-level headers automatically. We don't include manual TOCs in API pages. If it makes sense to group the API endpoints, we should make the groupings individual pages.

## Overview

The PKI External CA secrets engine provides a bridge between Vault and external ACME-compliant Certificate Authorities. It manages the complete certificate lifecycle including:

> 1. **ACME Account Management**: Register and manage accounts with external ACME servers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **ACME account management**: Register and manage accounts with external ACME servers.
```
Style correction: Reserve capitalization for product/protocol names

2. **Role-Based Access**: Define roles that control which domains can be requested and how certificates are issued
3. **Automated Certificate Acquisition**: Handle the ACME protocol workflow automatically, including challenge fulfillment
4. **Certificate Caching**: Store and retrieve issued certificates

### Key concepts

- **ACME Account**: A registered account with an external ACME server (e.g., Let's Encrypt)
- **Role**: Policies that define certificate issuance, including allowed domains and challenge types

> - **Order**: A certificate request in progress through the ACME workflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Order**: An in-progress certificate request using the ACME workflow.
```

- **Challenge**: ACME validation method (HTTP-01, DNS-01, or TLS-ALPN-01) that proves domain ownership

## ACME account management

ACME accounts represent registered accounts with external ACME servers. Each account associates with a private key and email contacts for notifications.

### Create ACME account

This endpoint creates a new ACME account by registering with the specified ACME directory server.

| Method | Path                                      |
| :----- | :---------------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/pki-external-ca/config/acme-account/:name` |

#### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the ACME account. Use this name to reference the account in roles.

- `directory_url` `(string: <required>)` - The ACME directory URL (e.g., `https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory` for Let's Encrypt production).

- `email_contacts` `(array<string>: <required>)` - List of email addresses for account notifications. At least one email is required.

> - `key_type` `(string: "ec-256")` - The key type to generate for the account key. Valid values are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `key_type` `(string: "ec-256")` - The key type to generate for the account key. Must be one of:
```

  - `ec-256` - ECDSA P-256 (default)
  - `ec-384` - ECDSA P-384
  - `ec-521` - ECDSA P-521
  - `rsa-2048` - RSA 2048-bit
  - `rsa-4096` - RSA 4096-bit
  - `rsa-8192` - RSA 8192-bit

- `eab_kid` `(string: "")` - External Account Binding (EAB) key identifier. Some ACME servers require this for account registration.

- `eab_key` `(string: "")` - External Account Binding (EAB) key (base64-encoded). Some ACME servers require this for account registration.

> - `trusted_ca` `(string: "")` - PEM-encoded trusted CA certificates for validating the ACME server's TLS certificate. Use this for private ACME servers with custom CAs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `trusted_ca` `(string: "")` - PEM-encoded trusted CA certificates for
  validating the TLS certificate provided by the ACME server. Use `trusted_ca`
  for private ACME servers with custom CAs.
```
Style correction: avoid possessives

        "key_version": 0,
        "key_creation_date": "2026-02-24T20:00:00Z"
      } 
    },
    "creation_date": "2026-02-24T20:00:00Z",
    "last_updated_date": "2026-02-24T20:00:00Z"
  }
}
```

### Read ACME account

This endpoint retrieves information about an ACME account.

| Method | Path                                      |
| :----- | :---------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/pki-external-ca/config/acme-account/:name` |

#### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the ACME account to read.

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/pki-external-ca/config/acme-account/letsencrypt-prod
```

#### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "name": "letsencrypt-prod",
    "directory_url": "https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory",
    "email_contacts": ["admin@example.com", "security@example.com"],
    "acme_account_key_id": "https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/acme/acct/123456789",
    "active_key_version": 0,
    "creation_date": "2026-02-24T20:00:00Z",
    "last_updated_date": "2026-02-24T20:00:00Z"
  }
}
```

### Update ACME account

> This endpoint updates the trusted CA certificates for an ACME account. You can only update this field after account creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the trusted CA certificates for an ACME account. You can only update the
CA certificate field after account creation.
```

| Method | Path                                      |
| :----- | :---------------------------------------- |

> | `PUT`  | `/pki-external-ca/config/acme-account/:name` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `PUT`  | `/{plugin_mount_path}/config/acme-account/:name` |
```

    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/pki-external-ca/config/acme-account/letsencrypt-prod
```

#### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "name": "letsencrypt-prod",
    "directory_url": "https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory",
    "email_contacts": ["admin@example.com", "security@example.com"],
    "acme_account_key_id": "https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/acme/acct/123456789",
    "active_key_version": 0,
    "creation_date": "2026-02-24T20:00:00Z",
    "last_updated_date": "2026-02-24T20:30:00Z"
  }
}
```

### Delete ACME account

This endpoint deletes an ACME account and deactivates it with the ACME server. You cannot delete the account if any roles reference it.

| Method   | Path                                      |
| :------- | :---------------------------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/pki-external-ca/config/acme-account/:name` |

#### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the ACME account to delete.

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request DELETE \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/pki-external-ca/config/acme-account/letsencrypt-prod
```

### List ACME accounts

> This endpoint lists all configured ACME accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
List all configured ACME accounts.
```

| Method | Path                                   |
| :----- | :------------------------------------- |
| `LIST` | `/pki-external-ca/config/acme-account` |

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request LIST \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/pki-external-ca/config/acme-account
```

#### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "keys": ["letsencrypt-prod", "letsencrypt-staging", "digicert"]
  }
}
```

### Rotate ACME account key

This endpoint rotates the account key by generating a new key pair and performing an ACME key change operation with the upstream server.

| Method | Path                                                 |
| :----- | :--------------------------------------------------- |

> | `POST` | `/pki-external-ca/config/acme-account/:name/rotate-key` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `POST` | `/{plugin_mount_path}/config/acme-account/:name/rotate-key` |
```

#### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the ACME account.

- `key_type` `(string: "ec-256")` - The key type to generate for the new account key. Valid values are the same as for account creation.

> - `force` `(bool: false)` - Force the rotation even if there are pending orders. Use with caution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `force` `(bool: false)` - Force rotation even if pending orders for the key
  exist. Use with caution.
```
Style correction: write in active voice

}
```

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/pki-external-ca/config/acme-account/letsencrypt-prod/rotate-key
```

#### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "name": "letsencrypt-prod",
    "old_active_key_version": 0,
    "new_active_key_version": 1,
    "key_type": "ec-384",
    "rotated_at": "2026-02-24T20:45:00Z"
  }
}
```

## Role management

Roles define policies for certificate issuance, including which domains you can request and what challenge types you can use.

### Create/update role

This endpoint creates or updates a role.

| Method | Path                            |
| :----- | :------------------------------ |
| `POST` | `/pki-external-ca/role/:name`      |

#### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the role.

- `acme_account_name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the ACME account to use for certificate requests.

- `allowed_domains` `(array<string>: [])` - List of domains the role accepts for certificates. You can use templates with ACL Path Templating (e.g., `{{identity.entity.name}}.example.com`).

> - `allowed_domain_options` `(array<string>: [])` - Options that influence how `allowed_domains` values are interpreted:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `allowed_domain_options` `(array<string>: [])` - Configure how Vault
  interprets `allowed_domains`:
```
Style correction: write in active voice

    "allowed_challenge_types": ["http-01", "dns-01"],
    "csr_generate_key_type": "ec-256",
    "csr_identifier_population": "cn_first",
    "creation_date": "2026-02-24T20:00:00Z",
    "last_updated_date": "2026-02-24T20:00:00Z"
  }
}
```

### Read role

This endpoint retrieves information about a role.

| Method | Path                         |
| :----- | :--------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/pki-external-ca/role/:name`   |

#### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the role to read.

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/pki-external-ca/role/web-server
```

#### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "name": "web-server",
    "acme_account_name": "letsencrypt-prod",
    "allowed_domains": ["example.com", "*.example.com"],
    "allowed_domain_options": ["bare_domains", "subdomains", "wildcards"],
    "allowed_challenge_types": ["http-01", "dns-01"],
    "csr_generate_key_type": "ec-256",
    "csr_identifier_population": "cn_first",
    "creation_date": "2026-02-24T20:00:00Z",
    "last_updated_date": "2026-02-24T20:00:00Z"
  }
}
```

### Delete role

> This endpoint deletes a role. You cannot delete the role if active orders exist unless the force option is specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deletes a role. To delete roles with active orders, you must use the force
option.
```

```

### List roles

This endpoint lists all configured roles.

| Method | Path                      |
| :----- | :------------------------ |
| `LIST` | `/pki-external-ca/role`      |

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request LIST \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/pki-external-ca/role
```

#### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "keys": ["web-server", "api-server", "internal-services"]
  }
}
```

## Certificate order workflow

The certificate order workflow manages the complete lifecycle of acquiring certificates from external ACME CAs.

### Create new order

This endpoint creates a new certificate order. The order will be automatically processed through the ACME workflow.

| Method | Path                                  |
| :----- | :------------------------------------ |
| `POST` | `/pki-external-ca/role/:name/new-order`  |

#### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the role to use for the order.

- `identifiers` `(array<string>: "")` - List of domain names to include in the certificate (e.g., `["example.com", "www.example.com"]`). Either identifiers or csr must be provided not both.

> - `csr` `(string: "")` - PEM-encoded Certificate Signing Request. If provided, the CSR workflow is used. If not provided, the identifier workflow is used and Vault generates the key pair.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `csr` `(string: "")` - PEM-encoded Certificate Signing Request. Provide `csr`
  to use the CSR workflow. Leave `csr` unset to use the identifier workflow and
  have Vault generate the key pair. You must provide either `identifiers` or
  `csr`, but not both.
```

    "order_status": "awaiting_challenge_fulfillment",
    "identifiers": ["example.com", "www.example.com"],
    "workflow_type": "identifiers",
    "authorizations": [
      {
        "identifier": "example.com",
        "challenges": [
          {
            "type": "http-01",
            "url": "https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/acme/chall/...",
            "token": "LoqXcYV8q5ONbJQxbmR7SCTNo3tiAXDfowyjxAjEuX0",
            "ready": false
          },
          {
            "type": "dns-01",
            "url": "https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/acme/chall/...",
            "token": "LoqXcYV8q5ONbJQxbmR7SCTNo3tiAXDfowyjxAjEuX0",
            "ready": false
          }
        ]
      }
    ],
    "creation_date": "2026-02-24T20:00:00Z",
    "last_update": "2026-02-24T20:00:05Z",
    "next_work_date": "2026-02-24T21:00:05Z",
    "expires": "2026-02-24T20:30:00Z"
  }
}
```

### Get order challenges

This endpoint retrieves the ACME challenges for an order. This is useful for determining what validation needs to be performed.

| Method | Path                                                  |
| :----- | :---------------------------------------------------- |

> | `GET`  | `/pki-external-ca/role/:name/order/:order_id/challenge`  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `GET`  | `/{plugin_mount_path}/role/:name/order/:order_id/challenge`  |
```

#### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the role.

- `order_id` `(string: <required>)` - The order ID.

> - `identifier` `(string: <required>)` - The identifier (domain) for which the challenge was fulfilled.

Reviewer: Where is this parameter provided? The sample request doesn't include the identifier or the challenge type.

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/pki-external-ca/role/web-server/order/01936d8e-7c3a-7890-b123-456789abcdef/challenge
```

#### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "order_id": "01936d8e-7c3a-7890-b123-456789abcdef",
    "authorizations": [
      {
        "identifier": "example.com",
        "challenges": [
          {
            "type": "http-01",
            "token": "LoqXcYV8q5ONbJQxbmR7SCTNo3tiAXDfowyjxAjEuX0",
            "key_authorization": "LoqXcYV8q5ONbJQxbmR7SCTNo3tiAXDfowyjxAjEuX0.9jg46WB3rR_AHD-EBXdN7cBkH1WOu0tA3M9fm21mqTI",
            "validation_url": "http://example.com/.well-known/acme-challenge/LoqXcYV8q5ONbJQxbmR7SCTNo3tiAXDfowyjxAjEuX0"
          },
          {
            "type": "dns-01",
            "token": "LoqXcYV8q5ONbJQxbmR7SCTNo3tiAXDfowyjxAjEuX0",
            "key_authorization": "LoqXcYV8q5ONbJQxbmR7SCTNo3tiAXDfowyjxAjEuX0.9jg46WB3rR_AHD-EBXdN7cBkH1WOu0tA3M9fm21mqTI",
            "dns_record_name": "_acme-challenge.example.com",
            "dns_record_value": "gfj9Xq...Rg85nM"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Mark challenge as fulfilled

> This endpoint notifies Vault that a challenge has been fulfilled and is ready for validation by the ACME server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tell This Vault that a challenge is fulfilled and ready for validation by the ACME server.
```

| Method | Path                                                           |
| :----- | :------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `POST` | `/pki-external-ca/role/:name/order/:order_id/fulfilled-challenge` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `POST` | `/{plugin_mount_path}/role/:name/order/:order_id/fulfilled-challenge` |
```

#### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the role.

- `order_id` `(string: <required>)` - The order ID.

- `identifier` `(string: <required>)` - The identifier (domain) for which the challenge was fulfilled.

- `challenge_type` `(string: <required>)` - The type of challenge that was fulfilled (`http-01`, `dns-01`, or `tls-alpn-01`).

#### Sample payload

```json
{
  "identifier": "example.com",
  "challenge_type": "http-01"
}
```

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \

>     http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/pki-external-ca/role/web-server/order/01936d8e-7c3a-7890-b123-456789abcdef/fulfilled-challenge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ curl                                        \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}"  \
    --request POST                            \
    --data @payload.json                      \
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/pki-external-ca/role/web-server/order/01936d8e-7c3a-7890-b123-456789abcdef/fulfilled-challenge
```

| :----- | :------------------------------------------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/pki-external-ca/role/:name/order/:order_id/fetch-cert`  |

#### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the role.

- `order_id` `(string: <required>)` - The order ID.

- `certificate_format` `(string: "pem")` - The format of the returned certificate:
  - `pem` - PEM format (default)
  - `der` - DER format
  - `pem_bundle` - PEM format with full certificate chain

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/pki-external-ca/role/web-server/order/01936d8e-7c3a-7890-b123-456789abcdef/fetch-cert
```

#### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "certificate": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
    "issuing_ca": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
    "ca_chain": ["-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----"],
    "private_key": "-----BEGIN EC PRIVATE KEY-----\n...\n-----END EC PRIVATE KEY-----",
    "private_key_type": "ec",
    "serial_number": "03:e7:1f:...:a2:3d"
  }
}
```

### Revoke certificate

> This endpoint revokes a certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Revoke a certificate.
```

| Method | Path                                                |
| :----- | :-------------------------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/pki-external-ca/role/:name/order/:order_id/revoke`   |

#### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the role.

- `order_id` `(string: <required>)` - The order ID.

- `reason` `(string: "unspecified")` - The reason for revocation. Valid values:
  - `unspecified`
  - `key_compromise`
  - `ca_compromise`
  - `affiliation_changed`
  - `superseded`
  - `cessation_of_operation`
  - `certificate_hold`
  - `remove_from_crl`
  - `privilege_withdrawn`
  - `aa_compromise`

#### Sample payload

```json
{
  "reason": "key_compromise"
}
```

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \

>     http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/pki-external-ca/role/web-server/order/01936d8e-7c3a-7890-b123-456789abcdef/revoke

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ curl                                        \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}"  \
    --request POST                            \
    --data @payload.json                      \
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/pki-external-ca/role/web-server/order/01936d8e-7c3a-7890-b123-456789abcdef/revoke
```

```

#### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "order_id": "01936d8e-7c3a-7890-b123-456789abcdef",
    "revoked": true,
    "revocation_time": "2026-02-24T21:00:00Z"
  }
}
```

### List active orders

This endpoint lists all active (non-terminal) orders for a role.

| Method | Path                                      |
| :----- | :---------------------------------------- |
| `LIST` | `/pki-external-ca/role/:name/active-orders`   |

#### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the role.

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request LIST \

>     http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/pki-external-ca/role/web-server/active-orders

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ curl                                        \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}"  \
    --request LIST                            \
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/pki-external-ca/role/web-server/active-orders
```

```

#### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "keys": [
      "01936d8e-7c3a-7890-b123-456789abcdef",
      "01936d8f-1234-5678-9abc-def012345678"
    ]
  }
}
```

### Get cached certificate

> This endpoint retrieves a cached certificate for a role. This is useful for retrieving the most recently issued certificate without going through the order workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieve the most recently issued (cached) certificate certificate for a role
without going through the order workflow.
```

| Method | Path                                |
| :----- | :---------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/pki-external-ca/role/:name/cached`     |

#### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the role.

- `identifiers` `(array<string>: "")` - List of domain names to include in the certificate 

- `min_validity_duration` `(int)` - The minimum duration remaining of the certificate, either min_validity_duration or min_validity_percentage are required

> - `min_validity_percentage` `(int)` - The minimum percentage remaining of the certificate, either min_validity_duration or min_validity_percentage are required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `min_validity_percentage` `(int)` - The minimum percentage remaining of the
  certificate. You must provide either `min_validity_percentage` or
  `min_validity_duration`, but not both.
```

- `certificate_format` `(string: "pem")` - The format of the returned certificate:
  - `pem` - PEM format (default)
  - `der` - DER format
  - `pem_bundle` - PEM format with full certificate chain

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \

>     http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/pki-external-ca/role/web-server/cached

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ curl                                        \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}"  \
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/pki-external-ca/role/web-server/cached
```

```

#### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "certificate": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
    "issuing_ca": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----",
    "ca_chain": ["-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n...\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----"],
    "serial_number": "03:e7:1f:...:a2:3d",
    "order_id": "01936d8e-7c3a-7890-b123-456789abcdef"
  }
}
```

## Lookup operations

Lookup operations provide ways to query certificate and order information.

### Lookup certificate by serial

This endpoint looks up certificate information by serial number.

| Method | Path                                          |
| :----- | :-------------------------------------------- |

> | `GET`  | `/pki-external-ca/lookup/cert/:serial`           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `GET`  | `/{plugin_mount_path}/lookup/cert/:serial`           |
```

#### Parameters

- `serial` `(string: <required>)` - The serial number of the certificate (can include colons or hyphens).

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/pki-external-ca/lookup/cert/03:e7:1f:a2:3d
```

#### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "order_status": "completed",
    "role_name": "web-server",
    "order_id": "01936d8e-7c3a-7890-b123-456789abcdef",
    "identifiers": ["example.com", "www.example.com"],
    "not_before": "2026-02-24T20:00:00Z",
    "not_after": "2026-05-25T20:00:00Z"
  }
}
```

### Lookup order by ID

> This endpoint looks up order information by order ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Look up order information by order ID.
```

| Method | Path                                    |
| :----- | :-------------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/pki-external-ca/lookup/order/:order_id`  |

#### Parameters

- `order_id` `(string: <required>)` - The order ID.

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/pki-external-ca/lookup/order/01936d8e-7c3a-7890-b123-456789abcdef
```

#### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "order_id": "01936d8e-7c3a-7890-b123-456789abcdef",
    "order_status": "completed",
    "role_name": "web-server",
    "identifiers": ["example.com", "www.example.com"],
    "workflow_type": "identifiers",
    "creation_date": "2026-02-24T20:00:00Z",
    "last_update": "2026-02-24T20:15:00Z",
    "expires": "2026-02-24T20:30:00Z"
  }
}
```

### List all orders

> This endpoint lists all orders (both active and completed).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
List all active and complete orders.
```

| Method | Path                             |
| :----- | :------------------------------- |
| `LIST` | `/pki-external-ca/lookup/orders`    |

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request LIST \

>     http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/pki-external-ca/lookup/orders

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ curl                                        \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}"  \
    --request LIST                            \
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/pki-external-ca/lookup/orders
```
